royal courts generally had the best of
everything the best food the nicest
looking people
the smartest people brought in as royal
advisors the best musicians jugglers
acrobats see even the tallest and
shortest people since if anyone was
really unusual in any way that person
would
probably end up being taken to the king
because everything and everyone that was
truly extraordinary should naturally end
up in the palace
this was especially true for some reason
of little people
there appears to have been no part of
the world from africa to south and
central america to europe
india china and japan where royal courts
didn't have dwarfs
it got to the point sometimes when
parents tried to figure out ways to
stunt their children's growth just so
they could get
to live in court
the army of king rudolph ii of bohemia
and hungary had one regiment of dwarfs
and another regiment of giants and the
aztec king bhakta zuma ii kept a troop
of dwarfs around him at all times both
to entertain him and to give him advice
on affairs of state
this might seem a odd combination but
actually it's not at all unusual you see
kings had a problem
most people were scared of them and
usually for very good reasons
no one wanted to make a king angry
so they'd always agree with everything
he said
sometimes kings had fun with that for
instance king charles ii of england once
asked a group of scientists to tell him
why a dead fish weighed more than a live
fish
they came up with all sorts of elaborate
theories until finally told them it
wasn't really true
still being surrounded by yes men could
be a problem because the king developed
a really stupid plan or got a really bad
idea
no one would tell him
wise monarchs realized they needed to
have someone capable of criticizing
pointing out the flaws in their projects
but they also didn't want that person to
be someone that everyone else took
seriously
the solution get a hunchback dwarf or
dance a silly dance or stand on his head
and then tell you what a terrible idea
you have
in fact if you get a comedian to make
fun of every idea you come up with you
can test them all for problems and you
never have to worry about
anyone
important being seen to publicly
question you
gestures didn't have to be small or
unusually shaped sometimes it was enough
for them to have severe mental health
issues
it might seem odd for a king to seek the
advice of crazy people but often they
were thought to see the world in a
different perspective to have highly
insights other people didn't have
but then the question is whether they're
really crazy
or just pretending
if they were too clever they might get
in trouble
king james vi of scotland had a bad
habit of not bothering to read all his
documents or all the documents his
advisors handed him to sign
to show him how stupid this was his
court jester snuck a paper into the pile
the king agreed to let the gesture be
king for a week and the king to become
his jester
sure enough the king signed the document
without reading it when he was told what
happened he was quite upset
oh and if you're wondering he didn't
actually change places with a jester but
he didn't punish him either
scottish gestures were sometimes a
little too clever which caused scottish
parliament to pass a law in 1449
called the act for the putting away of
feigned fools
which authorized sheriffs to arrest
anyone advising the king who turned out
to just be pretending to be crazy